Benefits of E-Pharmacies:
Right off the bat, we would say e-pharmacies offer comfort and ease. You as a customer have to just place your medicine order and the rest of it, including doorstep delivery of your order, is taken care of by the e-pharmacy.

Pocket Friendly:
Online pharmacy in India is a niche and upcoming sector for now, which means that there are very few authentic pharmacies and they offer brilliant discounts and cashbacks. A part of it has to do with a reduced cost of maintenance on the company. No matter what model of business an online pharmacy adopts they generally save on the cost of maintaining infrastructure for offline pharmacies in the cities they function, making it easier for them to offer attractive discounts and better services without incurring huge loss.

Ease of Accessibility:
All online businesses flourish because they are easy to access and understand. E-pharmacies are no different. Customer experience being paramount, most online pharmacies sell drugs online through a few simple steps, that any customer with access to internet could follow. The other side of accessibility is also empowerment. There are several patients or customers who are dependent on others for their healthcare for short term or long term. Online pharmacies allow all such patients to be more self reliant in their care.

Orders: History, Transaction, and Policies
All e-pharmacies maintain a detailed record of all online sale of medicines, along with transactions made and modes of payment. This is all your medical history in one place, in a future not so far away, your physician would be able to track your medicine purchase, meaning that it would be easier for them to predict risks of chronic disease and suggest preventive measures from there on.

Similarly, a combined, cumulative data of what kind of medicines are being sold the most, which areas are reporting a high sale of a particular drug, during a particular season can help give an in-depth insight to policymakers to make policies which simultaneously cater to the nation as a whole and are dynamic enough to be easily customisable to particular areas and seasons.

Authentic Medicines:
The Indian Internet Pharmacy Association was given the rights to self regulation until the government announced a particular law to deal with online pharmacies. The IIPA conscientiously decided to have strict compliances in place, the most important of which is authenticity of medicines. Thus, online pharmacies either manufacture their own medicine or get their supplies from trustworthy and established stockists.

Related Read:  10 Ways to Check for Fake Medicines

Awareness:
An educated customer is of great interest to an e-pharmacy because that would mean that customer is making an informed choice, is aware of drug interactions, knows his/her medical history, and is able to mitigate risks. Such education not just empowers the customers, it also helps build trust between the online pharmacy and the customer. Since pharmacies allow customers to pick from a range of branded to generic medicines, education is important for customers to make the right choice for themselves.

Privacy:
Customer data is fiercely protected by online portals, this ensures that the customer is not unnecessarily accosted with invasive communication which may damage the relationship between the online portal and the customer. That is, however, just one part of the privacy online medical apps provide, the other being anonymity to the patient. There are several diseases, which could cause patients to face much prejudice, online medicines help neutralise this prejudice, especially from the immediate environment of the patient, something the local chemist cannot prevent.
